---
layout: post
updated: 2008-04-08
alias: /2008/04/None.html
title: Why I'm Replacing My Java Code with Python
---
<p>
People who know me me were surprised to know that I actually wrote <i>something</i> in Java.  Initially Java seems like a good idea, since I though i needed real threads on multiple cores, and a particularly library that offered some unique functionality.  Neither assumption turned out to be correct, but  here I am  with some Java code. 
</p>


<p>A few days ago after showing the friend a different part of the applications, I was a big embarrassed.  It's a lot of code, do not do very much.  On a whim, I rewrote it in python (only took maybe 8 hours), and the result was</p>
<ul>
<li> 2/3 less lines of code</li>
<li> More and better functionality</li>
<li> Same performance</li>
</ul>

<p>I'll write about that later.  But after this success, I wondered about the other parts of the application.  Could I replace other parts of it and get the same results.</p>

<p>The short answer is that I am not using Java ever again</p>

<p>This server is  basically a web service like-thing that is a proxy from http to sql.  You send in a request, it turns it into SQL, runs it against a postgresql database, and returns the results in JSON format.  Really basic.</p>

<p>For java I used the Jetty http server.  It seems ok -- I was able to make a web server in 5 lines of code, and <i>no xml</i> (very un-java like!).    For python, I used the wsgiref sample http server, which is probably not something I would use live, but wsgi is great and I can swap it to a real server later.</p>



