---
layout: post
updated: 2009-02-04
alias: /2009/02/None.html
title: Real world example of why OS packaging is a problem
---

<p>
In a previous post, I talked about how OS level packaging (RPM, deb, apt, ports) isn't very good for application development.  Unfortunately it might have been a bit abstract, so here's a real world example:
</p>

<p>A client on mine is on Cent OS 5.2 (nee Red Hat Enterprise 5.2).  It comes with python 2.4, which came out in 2005.  and I have to say, most of installed packages are grossly out of date.  And <code>yum</code> has big problems with 64-bit installs, frequently trying to install both i386 and x64 versions, frequently with different versions, which causes conflicts (yes I know to resolve this but it's pain).
</p>

<p>In particular, most of the system level scripts are written in python.  Do you <i>really</i> want to upgrade the system python?  I didn't think so.  Even if you did good luck getting a decent update-to-date RPM.  The first two I pulled down where compiled incorrectly or you get something like this:</p>
<pre>
[root@localhost pmond]# rpm -ivh  python-2.6-4.fc11.x86_64.rpm
error: Failed dependencies:
	libc.so.6(GLIBC_2.7)(64bit) is needed by python-2.6-4.fc11.x86_64
	libcrypto.so.8()(64bit) is needed by python-2.6-4.fc11.x86_64
	libdb-4.7.so()(64bit) is needed by python-2.6-4.fc11.x86_64
	libexpat.so.1()(64bit) is needed by python-2.6-4.fc11.x86_64
	libpython2.6.so.1.0()(64bit) is needed by python-2.6-4.fc11.x86_64
	libssl.so.8()(64bit) is needed by python-2.6-4.fc11.x86_64
	libtinfo.so.5()(64bit) is needed by python-2.6-4.fc11.x86_64
</pre>

<p>I'm not telling my client to upgrade their entire OS just so a semi-modern version of python can be installed</p>






